# 8 Puzzle

8 puzzle is a sliding puzzle played on a 3-by-3 grid. It contains 8 square tiles numbered 1 through 8 in some random order and one blank square. The task is to arrange the tiles so that they are in order (telephone key pad order, top row 1-2-3, then 4-5-6, then 7-8, with the blank square in place of 9). You can move a tile only horizontally or vertically into the blank square.

In this code, we implement the A*-search algorithm to solve the puzzle, and generalisations to larger *n*-by-*n* grids. In *Board* we implement the board data type to represent the 8-puzzle grid. In it, we include two distances to measure how far away the game board is from the goal board. 1) The *Manhattan* distance which, for an individual tile, is the sum of the vertical and horizontal distance from the goal position, and for the whole board is the sum of the individual manhattan distances. 2) The *Hamming* distance is the number of tiles in the wrong position.

In *Solver* we implement the A*-search algorithm. This is a general artificial intelligence algorithm which creates a weighted graph of nodes and finds a path to the goal node that has the smallest cost. In our case, the search node consists of a particular board arrangement, along with the number of moves it took to reach that node and its parent node (the previous board arrangement that led to the current one). The weighting is given by either the Manhattan/Hamming distance. We can visualise this as a game tree, where the nodes are the arrangement nodes as just described, the root node is the initial game board, and the possible next arrangements are the children of each node. We take the child which has smallest Manhattan/Hamming distance and continue. In our case, we can avoid working with graphs entirely by using priority queue of search nodes, with priority defined by the distances. We put the initial search node onto the priority queue, at each step we delete the search node from the priority queue with minimum priority and insert all neighbouring search nodes (next possible moves). We stop when the goal board is removed.
